---
title: 'Review: iZettle Card Reader'
date: 2012-07-14T17:00:00Z
---

I recently received my [iZettle](https://www.izettle.com/gb) card reader as part
of their beta program. Anyone can sign up to the program, but I thought I'd
share my thoughts on the product (and to be honest, save you the bother of
getting one yourself).<!-- more -->

### The reader itself

From a manufacturing perspective, the iZettle feels a bit cheap. Of course you
might expect this from something that will ultimately be given away free, but
even then this still seems flimsy. It only takes a small amount of pressure to
bend the top in towards the bottom. However, that said, the dock connector end
does seem fairly sturdy and doesn't feel like it could break off inside your
iPhone.

![The iZettle device. It's a black rectangle with an iPhone connector on one side and a slot for a card on the other.](/img/2012-07-iZettle.jpg)

Unfortunately, due to the iZettle's purpose, reading chip-enabled cards, the
thing is pretty big. When connected to an iPhone, the phone's size increases by
about a half, and once a card is inserted, that pokes out enough to make it
around two phone lengths long. If I was running a shop or a stand using the
iZettle as my only payment method I think I'd get a bit sick of carrying this
huge thing around.

![THe iZettle connected to an iPhone. A card is inserted into the iZettle and sticks out about halfway.](/img/2012-07-iPhone_iZettle_Card.jpg)

### Card support

This is the main problem with iZettle. The support for cards (at least in this
country) is downright terrible. The only cards supported are MasterCard,
American Express and Diners Club. That's it. No Visa, the most common card type
in the UK. In fact, because of this I couldn't actually test taking any payments
with the iZettle, because I don't know anyone with a MasterCard or Amex.

### The companion app

Truth be told, the iZettle app isn't actually that bad. It's clear and lets you
take a payment straight away after opening the app. You can take a payment
without using the card reader, but again, Visa isn't supported so I couldn't
test that out.

You can also use the app to keep track of cash payments as well, although
nothing actually happens in the app except a transaction is logged. The tender
screen on the iPad is very helpful though, showing three amounts that are most
likely to be paid that can be tapped easily, or allowing an amount to be typed.

![The iZettle payment screen. A total of £2.99 is displayed, and three buttons below the total show £3, £4, and £5 options.](/img/2012-07-Cash_Payment.png)

The iPad version of the app allows you to add products to a catalogue, then use
those products to build an itemised receipt that can be emailed to the person.

With regards to security, when taking a payment the cardholder has to sign on
the device, which renders the chip reader a bit useless seeing as reading the
magnetic strip is enough if you're authorising using a signature. If the
authorisation is done using a signature, the iZettle didn't need to be the size
it is, since it could have just been a small accessory the card can be swiped
through.

### Pricing

The good thing about the iZettle is you can pick one up for free at the moment
by [requesting an invite](https://www.izettle.com/#register) to the beta
program. I couldn't find any information about whether it will cost anything
once it is released generally. The app is also free to download.

When it comes to the transaction fees, iZettle takes 2.75% of all transactions
using a MasterCard or Diners Club card, and 2.95% on Amex transactions. If you
don't use the card reader and enter card details manually, the fee is £0.10 plus
3.5% of the transaction amount. These fees don't seem too bad compared to the
amount PayPal take, for example.

### Should I get one?

The answer at the moment would have to be no. Unless you happen to know that
every payment you're going to take will be using a MasterCard, you'll end up
turning so many people away it won't be worth getting out the iZettle each time
just to put it away again. The app is very nice, especially the iPad version,
but without good card support it's nearly useless.
