---
title: 'Should I get… Threes!?'
date: 2014-02-08T17:00:00Z
---

The popular new game on the App Store at the moment is
[Threes!](https://itunes.apple.com/gb/app/threes!/id779157948?mt=8&at=10l7rn&ct=thr).
It looks sort of like a sliding number puzzle, but the concept is completely
different. The idea is, starting with a 1 tile and a 2 tile, you match tiles
together to form ever-increasing multiples of three.

The catch is, a tile can only pair with a matching tile (except 1 and 2), there
are only 16 spaces on the board, and every time you make a move, a new tile is
added. The game is over when no more tiles can move.

So, should you buy it?<!-- more -->

### The good

Threes! is an excellently designed game. It has a fun aesthetic and all the
tiles are individual characters. The first time you create a tile with a certain
value, the game stops to give you a little biography about that tile. They all
have different personalities, which makes the game a lot more engaging than if
it had just been numbers on a grid.

![Screenshot of Threes. It's a 4x4 grid of 3D tiles where the front edge of the tiles each have a different face.](/img/2014-02-threes-game.png)

The soundtrack is perfect. Its style fits in well with the game's design and
character, and is catchy enough to stick in my head all day and make me want to
play even more. It loops round so it might seem like you're hearing it over and
over, but that's probably just because you've accidentally been playing non-stop
for an hour.

There are so many little details that have been added that make it even better.
If two matching tiles are adjacent, the eyes on the edge of the tiles turn to
look at each other. When you have a high-value tile on the board, and create
another one somewhere else, they gasp and get excited at the prospect of being
matched together.

### The bad

There honestly isn't a lot to put here. The only thing I don't like is the fact
that every time you finish a game, the keyboard pops up for you to 'sign' your
game. This doesn't make a lot of sense, since Threes! has Game Center
integration, so if someone else is playing on your device, your Game Center name
will be on the global leaderboard anyway. It's not too difficult to just hit
Return each time it shows up, but I'd rather not have to go through that every
time.

### Should I get it?

Absolutely! I've been playing it for hours in the last three days since it came
out, and I'm still enjoying it as much as I did from the start. It doesn't
require much effort to play (you can play with a single thumb), but it still
puts up a good challenge. It's definitely the kind of game you can just pick up
and play anytime, anywhere. It's putting it down once you do that's the hard
part.

Threes! is currently £1.49 [on the App Store][1], but that's an introductory
price, so it'll be increasing soon.
